How to treat low back pain with one of
these devices in an effort to build a
stronger back so that your back pain
ultimately goes away.
I think people are very confused when it
comes to back pain because sometimes
like I hear people say, "Well, I went to
a chiropractor for X amount of months
and it didn't do anything." Right,
because the chiropractor can manipulate
the different vertebrae that are lined
up. I mean, he can push and pull on them
and get them to align correctly, but if
you don't have the muscles that fire to
keep them in alignment, they go back out
of alignment. Better chiropractors and
this product will aid, provided you use
it correctly, in the general treatment
of the joint dysfunction so that you
don't need constant physical
manipulation.
>> [music]
>> Hi. My name's John Jaquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective beyond a lot of
influencers who really focus on sports
performance. Today I want to talk about
whole body vibration and why you may
want to look into it. Now, you've
probably seen vibration platforms at
gyms or maybe therapy centers, wellness
type spots. If you've been to an
OsteoStrong, you've definitely seen
whole body vibration platforms.
Almost nobody knows what these do,
sometimes including the people that work
at the centers that have them. I'm going
to tell you what it does and I'm going
to tell you specific ways to use it to
build towards an outcome you might be
looking for. The biggest thing
that this does is muscle activation.
Now, why would it do that? Well, the
platform
moves up and down, side to side, and
forward and backward 30 times per
second. So, the idea is it makes you
unstable. So, this activates muscle.
What it also does is specifically
activates muscle around joints
that may be compromised. So, if you have
a low back pain,
and that's what I really want to talk
about today in this video,
how to treat low back pain with one of
these devices in an effort to build a
stronger back so that your back pain
ultimately goes away.
I think people are very confused when it
comes to back pain because sometimes,
like I hear people say, "Well, I went to
a chiropractor for X amount of months
and it didn't do anything." Right,
because the chiropractor can manipulate
the different vertebrae that are lined
up. I mean, he can push and pull on them
and get them to align correctly, but if
you don't have the muscles that fire to
keep them in alignment, they go back out
of alignment.
Which is why chiropractic treatment
often means you just need more
chiropractic treatment. Better
chiropractors and this product will aid,
provided you use it correctly, in the
general treatment of the joint
dysfunction so that you don't need
constant physical manipulation. One of
the greatest strength and conditioning
coaches the world has ever seen is a guy
named Charles Poliquin.
He felt,
and documented a lot of this,
that
when you have
low or zero pain in your spine,
or and surrounding your spine, and you
know, the all all the all the joints
between all the vertebrae,
that that that is really the only time
that your body will allow you
to grow more muscle.
Now, that sounds kind of esoteric and
crazy, but think about from a central
nervous system perspective. If you've
got a compromised back, does your body
want to make a bicep stronger so you
could hold a heavier weight which may
influence further injury in the spine.
No.
Your central nervous system does not
want that. So, that theory has a lot of
merit.
And that's ultimately a manifestation of
something called neural inhibition,
which really means your nervous system
sees a problem
if muscle is activated to a certain
point, so it keeps you from activating
muscle to that point. So, how do we
address this? Now, all sorts of things
we can do with a vibration platform.
What I want to show specifically right
now, or at least first, is how to get a
really good stretch in the lower
in the lower back. Now, I mean
sacral joint all the way up
to
probably mid back. I don't want to get
too technical.
Uh also, I don't want you to have to,
you know, uh have a physiology education
to be able to use one of these. They're
pretty straightforward. So, what I'm
going to do
is I'm going to bend forward. I'm going
to let my musculature absorb the
vibration as I stand on it. The trigger
to turn this on, by the way, is when you
put your foot on it.
Or anything over 50 lb. So, if you have
like a 50-lb dog and they hop up on
this, they're going to turn it on. What
I want to do is I want to get in a
squatted position, and then I want to
get my elbows
down on my thighs, and then
curl my back a little bit
so [snorts] that I have some tension in
my vertebrae, and then I want to push
down with my elbows so that I'm creating
some lengthening in this area. Now,
that stretch in itself
will probably do nothing for you.
However, when you do it under vibration,
what's happening is you're stretching
the lower vertebrae while at the same
time adding vibration. So, as
the vertebrae move, muscle gets
activated in the general area.
Blood flow goes into the discs. So, the
discs
become more inflated and create more
space in between the vertebrae. You
basically have an 8-hour window when
this happens.
So,
you get blood flow into the disc, you
have better function of your spine for
about 8 hours. That's when you want to
do your workout, because you reduce your
pain, which means reducing
neural inhibition.
Then at the same time, because you
reduce the pain, you can train the
muscles around the spine, let's say an
X3 or variable resistance deadlift.
Well, now you're activating the muscle
and strengthening it strengthening it,
so that
you're really not going to have
the same kind of problems in the future.
You're really approaching this from a
curative perspective. So, let me show
you this
this one stretch. So, the vibration's
turned on, and I'm just going to
sort of squat down and then
collapse my upper body until I'm
suspending the weight of my upper body
right here on my elbows.
Now,
normally I start the day
doing that for about a minute.
I don't really have a lot of back pain,
but whatever tightness I have just from
sleeping or whatever, like it's gone
after that minute, and I am
ready, muscles are lit up, ready to go
100% for a great workout session. Now,
the reason this is called the GH
accelerator
is because instability firing done in
an intense scenario. So, a lot of
afferent, meaning involuntary, muscle
firing, which typically happens all
through the core when you're stabilizing
your body, but really every muscle in
the body can be activated like that.
When you activate
at that frequency, 30 times per second,
your growth hormone goes up.
So, it's called Well, I call it the
sprint effect, but it's the same kind of
thing. You like you If you look at the
skull of a sprinter,
it looks like it was lined up with a
laser. Like, their whole body is moving,
but the skull stays very still. Whereas,
you see a distance runner, their heads
bobbing up and down because they don't
have any reflexive firing. They're
trying to Their body's actually trying
to activate the least amount of muscle
as opposed to using muscle to stabilize
you,
which ends up being the most amount of
muscle. So, that sprint effect is what
we're looking for. The GH Accelerator in
general,
you take the top off it and you can see
the groove right there and the groove
right here. This is for the X3 banding,
so you can actually do your workout on
this and increase your circulating level
of growth hormone post workout. So,
that's phenomenal. As far as ranking,
like what's going to give you the best
results, X3 is here. You might get an
additional 5% results
with the growth hormone accelerator. So,
it's not a huge difference, but it's a
bit It's a difference. And if you want
to absolutely optimize, I recommend it,
but
keep that 5% number in mind if you're
budgeting yourself. Like, if you've got
to stretch yourself,
I mean, financially, to get one of
these, then don't worry about it. Um or
if you have back pain, then then it
might be then it might be really worth
it for you. But, if you have no back
pain and you're young and you're you're
on a budget, just make this something
that you're looking at like, you know,
years down the road. I just want to make
that crystal clear for people cuz I
don't want anybody to struggle. One
other
activation movement I want to show
people that I've never put on video
before, really has to do with the
obliques and quadratus muscles. The way
to activate them and and there's a I'll
first I'll show you the
advanced way to do it because everybody
who watches my videos
wants to imagine they're advanced. I
don't know why,
uh but you'll understand why as soon as
you try and do this. And then I'll show
you the way I think you should go about
doing it. But
I'm going to get on my knees here.
I'm going to put my hands on the
platform. I want to explain before I
turn this thing on because it makes a
lot of noise. So, I'm going to put my
hands here. I'm going to move my legs
apart.
And then I'm going to pick up one hand
which makes one side of my body want to
fall towards the ground. My obliques and
quadratus need to
fire to stabilize me. Now, of course,
stabilize me under something that's
making me unstable 30 times per second.
That's going to activate the core in a
much better way. This is another like
pre-exercise session movement that is
phenomenal for just ensuring you're
going to engage the most amount of
muscle. So, hands right here.
Spread my legs out.
Now I want to do this.
Not a not a one-legged push-up, but just
enough so that this fires and this
fires.
Now, I'm going to switch hands.
I might do I might do each side for 1
minute.
You don't really need much more than
that. I
Just in the seconds I did I'm sweating.
Great activation. You actually don't
want to spend more than a minute
on each side because you don't want this
to start burning muscle glycogen. This
is activation.
And then you can do your workout on it
because it's set up to hold the X3 or
you can do your X3 off of that and just
use this as an activation tool. I mean,
if you have it, you probably ought to
use use it for X3. But uh just
keeping all variables in mind, I really
hope this helps.
And uh ask me questions in the comments.
Um if you want to see any research,
there is so much research on whole body
vibration. I actually used to be the
chief science officer of the largest
whole body vibration therapy company in
the world. I've got tons of stuff like
memorized. I'll be able to give you
anything you need if you have questions.
See you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights,
we've got the answer for you.